This tutorial we'll be talking about data warehousing.
As we discussed the data preparation phase consists of two major steps T.L. and database.
We will cover off the tail step further in the course.
And today we'll talk about the database step data warehousing simply means storing the data in a relational
database.
However the term data warehousing implies that this is not a transactional database.
Rather it is specifically designed to store data that will be analyzed and visualized to derive insights
.
So what is a relational database.
And here before we continue I just wanted to quickly say that if you are already very comfortable of
databases then feel free to skip the rest of this tutorial.
All right.
So here you can see that there is an asterix near relational.
This is because there is also another type of databases.
Non-relational however to keep things simple we won't talk about them right now.
We will discuss no relational databases in the introductory section of Hadoop.
Later on in this course or relational database as the name suggests is a one where the relations between
data within the database matters.
In simplest terms this means that data is stored in tables which have rows and columns and the tables
can be linked through common columns.
Here you see an example of a relational database.
Basically a database is very similar to an Excel document and tables in a database are just like tabs
in the Excel spreadsheet.
However a database has numerous advantages over Excel.
Let's have a look at some of them.
Number one integrity while in excel every cell is separate and you can place anything you want into
it.
For example date number a text and so on.
In a database comb's have predefined types and therefore if your column is designed to contain numbers
it cannot contain a text or it cannot contain a date or any other type of information and vice versa
.
The second advantage is that combining data sets in a database is easy.
That is how they are designed as you will see further in the scores.
It is very natural to join tables to create new tables and derive insights on the other hand.
In Excel you would have to use tools like the view lookup function which is much more complicated and
much less efficient and a great plus of databases is that they are easily scalable.
You can have five rows or five billion rows and Iran crash whereas Excel is much more limited in that
sense and its performance becomes much slower as your daughter said grows.
There are more advantages of databases which we won't go through at this stage.
You will discover them as we progress through this course and to sum up databases of the next level
up from Excel.
Once you get a grip over databases you won't want to use Excel anymore.
By the way here's the icon that represents databases and diagrams.
Get used to it because you will be seeing it quite often and to finish off today's tutorial.
This course will be working with skill database's skill stands for structured query language.
That is because to manipulate data in this type of database you need to write queries.
For example this code was used to display the table you saw in the previous slide but don't be aware
.
Skewl scripting language is very simple and you will see this from further tutorials in this course